All our buses have CCTV cameras and sound recording facilities installed.

In providing CCTV cover for our staff and customers, we hope to deter crime and provide a safer, more secure working and travelling environment for both staff and customers.

Images and sound are recorded and monitored for your safety, insurance purposes, internal investigations and to help prevent crime.

We also have a fully equipped CCTV Central Office with the necessary technology to process recordings.

Each incident will be dealt with in accordance with our Code of Practice and the 1998 Data Protection Act. This scheme is controlled by Nottingham City Transport.

-  Your rights  -

Subject to certain exemptions, you have a right to be told whether any personal data is held about you. You also have a right to a copy of that information in a permanent form except where the supply of such a copy is not possible or would involve disproportionate effort, or if you agree otherwise.

Nottingham City Transport (NCT) will only give that information if it is satisfied as to your identity. If release of the information will disclose information relating to another individual(s), who can be identified from that information, then NCT is not obliged to comply with an access request unless:

The other individual(s) has consented to the disclosure of information, or
It is reasonable in all circumstances to comply with the request without consent of the other individual(s)

-  Nottingham City Transport’s rights  -

NCT may deny access to information where the Act allows. The main exemptions in relation to information held on the CCTV System are where the information may be held for:

Prevention and detection of crime
Apprehension and prosecution of offenders
And giving you the information may be likely to prejudice any of these purposes.

-  Fee  -

A fee of £10 is payable for each access request. Cheques should be made payable to Nottingham City Transport Limited.

Standard Subject Access Request forms are available if the request is made in writing to: Nottingham City Transport, Lower Parliament Street, Nottingham, NG1 1GG.

NCT will provide a written response to the access request within 40 days of receiving the request.

- Cameras  -

Cameras are sited so that they capture images that are relevant to NCT’s scheme. The images recorded by our CCTV System are of a high resolution, colour digital format, recorded onto a hard drive.

-  Images  -

Access, security and disclosure of the images are strictly controlled in accordance with the 1998 Data Protection Act.

-  Signs  -

Signs are displayed on the entrance to and inside, our premises and vehicles fitted with CCTV.

-  Data  -

All personal data will be obtained and processed fairly.
Personal data will be held only for the purposes specified and used only for the purposes, and disclosed only to the people shown within our Code of Practice. It will not be held longer than necessary.

Personal data processed for the following purposes:

* The prevention or detection of crime

* The apprehension or prosecution of offenders

Are exempt from the subject access provisions as per NCT’s Code of Practice.

-  Complaints  -

If for any reason you are not happy with the response you receive regarding your access request, please contact NCT’s Data Controller who will respond to your complaint in writing in accordance with our Code of Practice and Customer Charter.